Loop functions are some of the most
powerful functions in the R language and
they make it kind of very easy to use,
especially in an interactive setting.
The idea behind a loop function is you
want to
execute a loop over an object or a set of
objects in a way that's kind of that does
a
lot of work in, in a very small amount of
space.
That way, you don't have to type as much
on the command line.
Of course, we already learned about loops.
We know about for loops and while
loops, things like that, and those are
all, work very
well; however, they are com, less compact
in a certain way.
So, there are a couple of loop functions
in R
and they usually have the word apply in
them somewhere.
So some of the key ones are lapply,
sapply, apply, tapply, mapply and
the real workhorse function that I, that
I'd like to talk about here is lapply.
And the idea behind lapply is
that you have a list of objects and you
want to loop over
the list of objects and apply a function
to every element of that list.
And so it's a very general concept.
And it can be used very powerfully to do a
lot
of computations in a few, in just a little
bit of typing.
Sapply is a variant of lapply that
simplifies the results.
Apply is a function that operates over the
margins of an array.
So, this is very useful
if you want to take summaries of matrices
or other or, higher dimensional arrays.
Tapply is short for table apply.
And, it applies a function over subsets of
a vector.
And mapply is a multivariate version of
real of lapply.
So I'll go into details about how these
work in a, in a, in a minute.
There's also another function called split
which doesn't actually apply anything to
objects.
But it's often useful
in conjunction with functions like lapply
or
sapply because it splits objects into
sub-pieces.
So, lapply.
Lapply takes three arguments.
Basically the first argument is a list
which is called X.
The second argument is a function or the
name of a function and then
there are other arguments that are, can be
passed to the dot dot dot argument.
And the dot, dot, dot argument is used to
pass arguments that go with the
function that you're being, that's being
applied
to each of the elements in the list.
If X is not a list, then you will
be coerced to a list if possible.
If it's not possible to coerce the object
to a list, then you will get an error.
So the lapply function, you can see, is
very simple.
The code for it is right here.
Basically the func we look for the
function if it's, if the
object is not a list then it's coerced to
a list using
as.list and then the, the rest of the
Lapply function is, is,is
implemented internally in C code to make
it a little bit faster.
So the idea with Lapply
is that you're going to take this list of
things.
And remember a list can contain any, any
number of different types of objects.
So they could be vectors, or matrices, or
data frames, or whatever it may be
and you want to apply a function to each
one of these elements of the list.
And that function is going to return
something.
It may not be the same thing that it
originally was on the list.
So, for example, it may take as an input,
as a vector, but then it may return
a scalar as a result.
So, the function's going to return
something for every single object in that
list, and the return values are going to
be assembled in a new list.
And that's what lapply is going to return.
So lapply, it's key to remember, it always
returns a list.
What goes in may or may not a list but it
will be coerced to a list.
And what comes out will always be a list.
So here's a simple example.
I'm creating a list of two elements, the
first one's called
A, and it's a sequence from one to five,
the second
one is called B, and it's it's ten or more
random variables.
So what I, and then, what I want to do is
I want to loop
over this lists of two elements and apply
the mean function to each of those
elements.
So you can see that when I call Lapply on
x and I apply the mean function I get
another list back, w-, and notice the list
has
the same names as the original list, a and
b.
But now I've got the mean of the first
element and the mean
of the second element.
And so that's how lapply works.
Here I've got a slightly more complicated
list.
I've got four elements and I've got, I'm
calling lapply to each
of those elements and I'm getting the mean
of each of those elements.
So, now I've got a list with four
elements.
The names are preserved and notice, of
course, you know, each of the elements of
the original list was a vector of some, of
a numeric vector of some sort.
But what I'm getting back is a vector with
just
a single number in it, for each element of
the list.
So, here's another way I way to call,
lapply.
Here I'm creating a sequence one, of x, 1
to 4,
and I'm calling runif, so, which generates
a uniform random variables,
to, using a random number generator.
Now, the first argument to runif, is the
number
of uniform random variables that you want
to generate.
So if I say runif 1 it's going to generate
a single random variable.
If I say runif 2, it's going to generate a
vector of two random variables.
So, here I'm applying l, the runif
function to sequence 1, 2, 3, 4.
So, what I'm going to get is a list where
the first element is a single random
number random uniform.
The second
element's going to be a vector of two
random uniforms.
The third element's going to be a vector
of three.
And the fourth element's going to be a
vector for random uniforms.
And so ret, you'll note, if you know the
runif function, you'll know that
it has other arguments to it beyond the,
the number of uniforms to generate.
But those other arguments have default
values so I don't need to specify them.
Now, suppose I want to call the runif
function on each one of these elements of
X but I didn't want to just generate
a uniform between zero and one which is
default.
Suppose I want to generate a uniform
between zero and ten so now I
need to pass some arguments to the runif
function which are not the default values.
In particular I need to change the max
value.
So I can do that through with lapply by
passing these arguments through the dot
dot dot argument.
So here I'm calling lapply
on X, I'm calling the run, I'm passing the
runif function, but that I'm
specifying that I want the min to be zero
and the max to be ten.
So now when I the, the list that I get out
of this has random uniforms that are
between zero and ten.
So lapply and the associated functions
make heavy
use of what, of what are called anonymous
functions.
Anonymous functions are functions that
don't have
names, so you don't assign them a
name of some sort but you can kind of
generate them on the fly.
So here is a just a quick example, I'm
going
to create a list that contains two
matrices in it.
The first is a mat, a two by two matrix
and the second is a three by two matrix.
So you can see the list here.
There's two elements.
They are named A and B.
And suppose I want to, I want to extract
the first column from each one of these
matrices.
So what I can do is I can call lapply so,
there's no function that, out there that
already extracts the first column of a
matrix but this is easy to do.
You can just write a function that just
takes
the first element, the first column of
that matrix.
So here I'm going to call lapply on x.
And I'm, I'm going to write, I'm going to
write the
function right here, so I'm going to say
function, and
then I'm, I'm going to give it an
argument, and
then given that argument, I extract the
first column.
So here, when I call Lapply with this
function I get
the first column from A, and the first
column from B.
So this function doesn't exist except
within the context of Lapply,
and after the Lapply function is finished,
the function basically goes away.
So that's an anonymous function, because
it doesn't have a name and lapply
and a lot of these other types
of functions use anonymous functions very
heavily.
Because unless there already exists a
function that does the operation that you
want to do, you're
going to have to write the function kind
of on the spot.
So sapply is just a variant of lapply and
all it
does is it tries to simplify the result of
lapply if possible.
So recall that lapply always returns a
list but sometimes
you don't want a list, sometimes you just
want something different.
So for example, if the, if the result is a
list where every element is a length
1 then what sapply will do is it'll return
a vector of all,of all, of all those
elements.
Usually you don't want an
ele, a list where every, where every
element is a single number,
for example, and so sapply will simplify
that into just a vector.
if, if the result is a list where every
element is a vector of the same length.
For example, if the, if the list comes
back
and every element has a length five, for
example.
Then what sapply will do it'll, it'll put
those elements in a
matrix that's, that's five by however long
the matrix, the, the list is.
So that, that's often
what you want to happen.
But if it, if it can't figure out how to
simplify the object when it comes back,
for example, if
the object has many different types of
things that comes
back then it's just going to then it won't
do anything.
It will just return a list.
So here in this, in this example when I
called
lapply and I applied the mean to
everything what happens
is that I got a list back that's of length
four and every element of the list is a
single number.
So it would make, it would be a lot nicer
if I just got
my list back that was just, I'm sorry, if
I
just got a vector back with all these
numbers in it.
And that's exactly what sapply does.
So sapply called on x with the mean
function
gives me a vector with four numbers in it.
Of course, if I called mean on the, on the
list by itself, that's
not really going to work because mean is
not meant to be applied to lists.
And so you'll get a warning message of n a
back.